[ Music ]
Hi, I'm Lisa Garr, host
of Gaiam Inspirations.
Would you like to
shift your space
and your energy in
regards to money?
Is your money situation
everything that you want it
to be or would you like to
clear any energy that you have
around money and really,
truly create more space
when it comes to money?
Joining me is Dr. Dain Heer,
the co-creator Access
Consciousness taught
around the world in over 40
countries for the past 15 years
and author of, " Being
You, Changing the World ."
Welcome. Hello.
Thank you.
[Laughter] Thanks for having me.
My pleasure.
Great to be back.
I know, great to be back.
I know, we had so
much fun last time.
There's more to cover.
Oh, there's definitely
more to cover.
There's so much more to cover.
Especially on this subject.
What does being you
have to do with money?
Well, here's the thing.
Money follows joy.
Joy doesn't follow
money, which is kind
of an interesting concept.
You always hear joy
follows money, right.
Yeah, because what you think is
once I get enough money then I
can finally be happy.
Now once you make the demand
I'm going to be happy,
then the money shows
up to support
that showing up in your life.
How does that work?
Well, it's based on the
idea that your point
of view creates your reality.
Reality doesn't create
your point of view.
So you'll have somebody
who experiences --
like, for example, there
was a guy who experienced --
there was this news show
right after Hurricane Andrew.
And there was a man standing
there, he was in 70s,
and he was standing
there in his underwear.
The person who interviewing
him, "Sir,
what's your story,
what happened?"
He said, "Well, came down here,
used to own that
house right there,
and as you see it's just a slab.
I had all my worldly
possessions in it and this is
where I was going to
retire and now it's gone."
And they're like, "How
are you about this?"
He went, "Well, I'm
okay, I still got me."
Wow, now that [laughter] point
of view created him being able
to move on and actually create
a life even though his house
and all of his worldly
possessions...
Wow. ...and all of
his money were gone.
There were lots of people
interviewed on the same show
that were angry at
God, angry at the world
for taking their house away.
Those people are going to have
a much harder time moving on.
How could this happen to me.
Yeah. Yeah, I -- I could
understand that though.
Yeah, absolutely and you could.
And the thing is though,
what you want to look at is
if my point of view
creates my reality what
if I could shift
my points of view
so I could have a
different reality.
That's basically what Access
Consciousness is about.
Let's shift those
points of view.
Let's take those
things that don't work
for us and let's undo them.
Let's change to something
different.
So if you realize -- and the
way it works is really cool.
A lot of think, "Oh, I've got
to have the right point of view
or the perfect point of
view, or I've got to be right
in all this stuff
that I'm doing."
No, if you're in one
of those situations,
something like that happens
to you and you realize,
"Wow, I'm getting angry.
I'm getting resentful."
Well, how about if
you change it.
Rather than I'm getting
angry and resentful,
and I have to stay with it,
what about I'm getting angry
and resentful, but I'd like to
be a lot more like that guy.
How do I get there?
So we don't' usually have
a model of that though.
Like the judgments that
I have about myself
and my current view, I'm not
usually aware of the fact
that that is limiting.
Right, and that is partially
because of what we
were handed as kids.
You know, we saw our
parents acting a certain way.
We saw our grandparents and our
friends acting a certain way.
And we grow up and
we act that way.
And we act like that's us, but
if you had different parents
and grandparents, you'd be
acting a different way so is
that really you or is that
how you learned to be here,
rather than you choosing to
be how you would like to be.
That man, the old guy in the
shorts who had him and was happy
with it, chose his
own path in the world
and that's a great
example of how we could be
if we would like choose it.
But it's like you said, we
don't have very many role
models Uh-uh.
And so what we have to
do really for those of us
who are actually seeking
and looking for change,
we have to realize we've sort of
got to be the role model for us
and also when you do that, you
end up becoming a role model
or an inspiration
for other people.
So what, do you just
question everything?
You question every
belief that you have?
Personally, yes.
You do, okay.
Yeah because I want to know.
It's a great way to start, huh?
Is it actually mine or is
it a judgment that I picked
up along the way, or is it
actually somebody else's point
of view.
I think one of the
things we talked
about last time is the idea
that 98% of your thoughts,
your feelings, and your emotions
don't actually belong to you.
They actually belong to the
people around you and you're
like a big psychic
radio receiver
and you've been picking
it up your whole life,
which means that 98% of the
unhappiness, 98% of the sadness,
98% of the anger, 98%
of the money struggle,
98% of the feeling
that you can't do it
and can't create the life you
want, isn't actually yours.
You're so psychically
aware of those energies
that you pick them up like
a big psychic radio receiver
and you've been thinking
they're yours your whole life.
Right, of course.
Yes. And if that
weren't there...
So good question --
where would I be, right?
Yeah, exactly.
Where would I be?
So you start off
by asking yourself,
who does this belong to?
Yeah, and in actuality if
you'll do that for three days
to every thought,
feeling, emotion...
Okay. ...judgment, heaviness,
or point of view you have
for three days, literally
for everything that takes you
out of being space into,
"Eh," every single thing,
if you ask who does this belong
to, if it lightens up at all,
it's not yours, return
it to sender.
And the thing is, you don't even
have to know who the sender is.
Right. You just want to
give it back to the person
who originally created it
so they can work on it,
so you're not working on all
kinds of other people's stuff.
What if it's the
media, the social norm?
Well, it could be the media and
social norm, but you still have
to align and agree if you're
going to walk home with it.
You still have to buy it
if you're going to
walk home with it.
Uh-hum. What happens is with
this is once you do this,
literally, if you'll do
this, who does this belong
to for three days, you'll walk
around a city like Los Angeles
or New York like walking,
talking meditation.
You'll literally have no
thoughts in your head.
You'll just literally
have a sense of space,
no matter who's around, no
matter what you're doing.
Wow. Yeah.
The four basic statements
that I remember when I'm --
when I'm familiarizing myself
with Access Consciousness is
who does it belong
to for me, what --
what doesn't make me feel
lighter makes me feel heavier.
Redo that one [laughter].
Yeah, what's true
makes you feel lighter.
What's true makes
you feel lighter.
A lie makes you feel heavier.
Lie makes me feel heavier.
The other one is how does
it get any better than this.
Yes. And the other one
is what else is possible.
Those are the four statements
that I run through my head
when I am learning about
Access Consciousness.
And those four statements I just
-- but a lot of different things
up against in order
to get some answers
because I don't have
any reference point.
Right, exactly.
Those four statements,
those four things
that you just mentioned,
if you took just those four
and started instituting them,
your whole life would
start to change.
And I mean that's -- I mean13
years ago, as you know,
I was at the place where
I was going to kill myself
if things didn't change.
I was literally so
tired of struggling.
And I'd done every self-help
modality I could find,
spirituality, metaphysics,
everything I could get my hands
on because I knew something
different should be possible.
None of those worked for you?
None of those resonated
with you?
Well, they resonated
to some extent.
They worked for a little
while, but after --
you know, I'd go to
a weekend workshop
and by Wednesday morning
again, I felt like I was buried
by the world, because
unfortunately,
they didn't have the practical,
pragmatic tools that I required.
I don't know how it is for
other people, but for me,
they didn't have the practical,
pragmatic tools I require
for when I'm in this place of,
"I feel so frustrated I just
want to explode and I want
to kill people, and I
don't know what to do."
You know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Even -- in a lot of the
stuff that I was doing,
that wasn't even
acceptable to feel that way.
It was, "Oh you're bad if
you don't feel spiritual
and holy, and enlightened."
Yeah. I was like, "Wow, I
must be really bad even here
where I'm not supposed
to be judged.
Apparently I'm really bad
because I have these
things going on in my head."
And so what Access is, is really
practical, really pragmatic,
but also it's about going
beyond the judgment of you.
What if what you're experiencing
isn't a judgeable offense?
What if it's what's true
for you in the moment?
What if it's just your --
you know, what if it's
true for you in the moment.
But then what if you have
these ways of changing it?
Like, "Wow," what if it's
true for you in the moment,
but what if it's true that
you're aware of something?
Like for example, if you're
driving down the road,
you're having a great day,
one of those wonderful days
where you wake up and you're
driving, and you're on your way
to work, and all of a sudden
it feels like you get smacked
with fear or heaviness.
Or things go wrong, not
the way that you thought.
Yeah, right, or they start
going wrong like that.
You want to ask immediately,
"Who does this belong to?"
If it lightens up at
all, it's not yours.
What if you don't know?
Doesn't matter.
Just end it.
Yeah, because...
...the only thing that's
important is acknowledging
that it's not yours.
Oh. And then allowing it
to go back because a lot
of us spend most of our
lives working on stuff
that isn't even ours and then
it goes away for a little while,
but then it comes back.
I think the difference
with Access
for me was it was the practical,
pragmatic tools I needed
to make this reality work.
And the tools though aren't
from inside this reality,
they're actually
looking out here
from a totally different
reality and awareness
of what could be possible so
that you can actually bring
that reality, you know, should
be possible here and live it.
So how does all this
relate to money?
Right? What is money
anyway, right [laughter]?
Yeah, exactly, what is money?
Well, let's put it this way,
money is a byproduct, basically.
So when you perform a service,
when you give somebody a gift
of let's say changing
their lives as an example,
well a lot of people they'll do
that, but then they don't want
to ask for the money for it.
What if you realize that the
real gift for you is the gift
of what you're offering
somebody?
The capacity to change
their life,
if let's say you're
a practitioner
or maybe you make somebody
feel better, you do a massage
or something, or you
sell them a widget
that makes their life better,
that's really the gift.
But you have to be willing
to receive the byproduct,
which is money and a
lot of people aren't.
One of the most interesting
things --
Gary Douglas, the founder
of Access, when I first came
to Access, one of
the things I wanted
to change the most was money
and he said to me, he said,
"There's no such thing
as a money issue."
I'm like, "What do you mean?"
He said, "There's only an issue
in what you're willing
to receive."
If you were truly
willing to receive,
money wouldn't be an issue.
But then a lot of other things
wouldn't be an issue either."
So it's this lack of receiving
that we've developed based
on our judgments and based
on the points of view
that we bought, that
really stop us
from having the money we like.
There's a class that you
gave in Dublin, Ireland.
Yes. And we have some
clips from this --
from the class, it
was videotaped.
And there's a beautiful
piece here about receiving.
I want to take a look at; I want
you guys to take a look at this.
[Video] So much to cover today,
but it's not just what
we're going to cover
and what we're going to
talk about that is going
to mentally change for you.
Most of what you're going to
get as far as change today,
most of it will not
even be mental.
What? Most of it won't
even be cognitive.
Most of it will be a shift in
your energy that allows you
to actually start receiving
because as my best friend,
Gary Douglas, told
me a long time ago,
"There's no such thing
as a money problem.
There's only a problem in what
you're willing to receive,"
and I went, "What are
you talking about?
He's like, "Well, if you were
willing to receive everything,
you'd actually allow yourself
to create the money
in order to have it."
And I didn't understand
at the time,
but over the last 13 years
I saw it play out in my life
and in a lot of other
people's lives.
And I saw that when
they were willing to get
over what they weren't
willing to receive,
what they decided they couldn't
receive, shouldn't receive,
weren't able to receive, weren't
valuable enough to receive,
their money situation
started changing dynamically.
And I started looking at that.
I'm like, "How much work
have you done specifically
on the area of money for
a lot of these people?"
Most of them were like,
"Well, you know what,
I started initially
working on money stuff,
but then I just started
actually heading for the things
that made me happier
and made my life happy,
and then my money
situation started changing."
Hmm, interesting.
So what if -- what about this?
What if having all the
money you'd actually
like to have will
not occur in the way
that you thought it would?
What if it's something totally
different that's necessary?
From my point of
view, it must be
because you've tried
all the stuff
that you thought it would
take, you know what I mean?
And yet, there's
still more to do.
What if it's actually
-- what if it's
about changing your
willingness to receive,
but also your willingness
to be more of you
in every situation in your life?
The reason we're doing,
" Being You with Money ,"
is because when you allow
yourself to be more of you,
which is kind of like you know
those mornings when you wake up
and you're just on cloud nine
and nothing can get in your way,
and you feel like you've got
every possibility available
and then that's like
at 8 o'clock and then
by 10:00 it's gone,
you know what I mean
[audience chuckles]?
Okay, well what if that could
extend over more of your time,
but do you notice when
you wake up in that state,
that state of possibility,
you're willing to
receive anything.
When it feels like
-- when it feels
like everything is just going
great and somebody cuts you off
in traffic, you're like,
"Yeah, who cares," you know.
When your stepmother calls,
it's like, "Yeah, no big deal,"
or your mother, or your
grandmother, or whoever it is
that usually triggers you,
and you're like, "Wow,
I just had a conversation
with them
that didn't faze me at all."
You know why?
Because you were willing to
receive what they were being
without a point of view,
you're willing to receive
who they were being
without a point of view.
You're willing to receive it
all without a point of view
and a lot of times
we look at receiving,
we have no idea what
the heck it is.
We're like, "What's receive?
I don't get it.
Yeah, receive money,
blah, blah."
But what receiving is, is being
willing to receive what's there
or what's being presented
without a point of view.
[End of video] So let's
talk about receiving.
Yes. So you were
just talking about it
in exchange for services.
Right. How do you ask for money?
How do you ask for money?
Practice. Practice [chuckles].
See, and a lot of
this stuff is practice
and what the clearing statement
does, what all the tools do,
is they actually make it
easier to be able to say,
for example, ask for money.
So we've got a couple of things.
One is we can do this
stuff to clear things,
but then you've still
got to choose
and that's the missing
element in most people's lives,
is they don't realize
they have a choice.
We talked about that earlier.
Most people don't believe
that it's their choice.
So how do you learn
to ask for money?
You go, "Show me the
money now, please.
Can I have the money
now, please?"
And literally, in class I'll
say, "Okay everybody repeat
after me," because I
know you have no...
Right. ...you know, don't
have any better ability to ask
for money than I did
when I came to Access.
What about a raise?
You go -- well, what you want
to do is you want to practice
with yourself and with your
friends, and you go, "Okay,"
and you say ten times, "Can
I have the money now, please.
Can I have the money
now, please?
now, please?"
That's only five,
but you get the idea.
Uh-huh. And then what you
want to do is you want to go,
"Okay so everything that doesn't
allow me to ask for money,
everywhere I bought that money
was the root of all evil,
was a bad thing, and everywhere
where I bought it from somebody
who just wanted to get my money
so I would give it away
so I would feel bad
about having it myself,
I now let it go,
destroy and uncreate it."
Then use the clearing
statement to undo it.
Clearing statement, okay,
because we're going to go
through the clearing
statement in a second.
I -- in asking for a raise,
so say your company
hasn't received a raise.
A friend of mine's a teacher,.
Right. She hasn't gotten
a raise for eight years.
Wow. Yeah, and it's
because of furloughs...
Right. ...and because of the
economy, and specifically,
the public school system.
Yes. And so it's --
it's infuriating because
her job level is even more
and increased now because
she's doing the work
of two, three people.
Right. She asks for a raise
and she's being told
no again and again.
What would you tell her?
Well, what I'd say
is, "Okay we need
to do a little more
in depth work."
I'd love to give
her one sentence
that would change it all...
Yeah. ...but that's
not really practical.
Yeah. See, what you
have to realize --
and that is one of the biggest
sadnesses to me, can I say.
We pay the people who are
creating our future the least.
[Chuckles] Yeah.
We'll pay somebody
who's scraping the land
and poisoning the water millions
and millions of dollars.
Uh-huh, I know.
It's like we have things
a little screwed up.
Yeah, yeah.
But we all realize that we have
things a little screwed up here,
but rather than going
into resentment of that...
Okay. ...you have
to look and go,
"Okay what choices
do I have available?
And what's it going to take
to change the situation?"
So what I would start with your
friend, I would say, "Okay,
so tell me what's
actually going on.
And tell me what it
is you'd actually
like to get out of this."
And if she says,
"Well, you know what?
I need a 20% raise to
even live or survive."
I'd say, "Okay, cool.
So if you can't get that
raise, are you going
to continue being a teacher
or is it time to look
for another line of work?"
Right. Okay, and you've
got to be real practical
about these things while
at the same time changing
the energy behind it.
She's really great at -- she
and her husband have a hobby
of building homes [laughter].
As you do.
They had a home in
Katrina that got blown away
and they rebuilt it
over a summer with...
Wow. ...themselves.
I mean they're a very,
very handy couple.
Right. And so she
could even pick that up
as a side job during
the summers...
Yeah. ...and make
an extra income.
Absolutely.
It's just a matter of her
looking in a different direction
and getting rid of the
judgment that she has
around the school
system, the system.
Yes, around the school system
and also around the idea
that that's the only
contribution she can be
to the world.
I mean so many of
our teachers do it
because they want
to change the world.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, they want
to be a contribution
that changes our future,
but what if what
she's being told is.
"Hey, you know what?
This is one way but there
are all kinds of other ways."
What if what she could do,
if she could take that skill
that she has for home
building or whatever...
Yeah. ...actually start making
more money and then go around
and teach teachers how
to make more money.
That's right.
What if that would
change the world even more
than her being in her classroom?
But if she has the fixed
point of view that she's got
to stay there in her classroom
because that's her
contribution...
Uh-huh. ...she misses the other
opportunities the universe has
for her.
And that's where
judgment kills us.
Decision, judgment,
and conclusion kill us
because nothing that
doesn't match our decision,
our judgment, or our
conclusion can even come
into our awareness.
So what I would do with
her at first, is I'd say,
"Everything you have
as your point of view
about being a teacher and why
you did it, all the judgments
and the conclusions about
that, will you destroy
and uncreate it, please.
And will you let it go?
And all of -- everywhere
you bought
that that was the only
way you could contribute,
will you let that go?
Now let's talk about some other
contributions you might be able
to be that would change the
world in an even larger way."
And notice the energy with that.
Yeah. It tingles your body.
It tingles my body.
Hopefully people
listening or watching.
Laura, I hope you're
watching, yeah [laughter].
Laura, we hope you're watching,
we hope you're getting it.
I'm looking around like
they're here, you know.
Hi. Yeah [laughter].
Hi everybody [laughter].
Exactly. It's that, it's that,
it's getting that into people.
We don't have a reference
for something like this.
Yeah, exactly and that's
the thing about Access
that I've noticed, is people
don't have a reference point
for getting to that level
of space that quickly
and also for living that.
And what I'm trying
to let people know is
look, you can live it.
I mean I was literally
going to kill myself
if things didn't change.
That was not a joke.
It's not a -- anything other
than where I was in my life
at the time because
of the struggle.
It's different.
I mean this sense of space that
we just talked about with her,
that's where I live and
the thousands of people
that I've worked
with start living.
I'm thinking of someone
who maybe is predisposed
to depression or has
habitual depression, anxiety,
those types of things.
Oh, let me tell you.
That is somebody who is so
aware that they are so aware
of the thoughts, feelings, and
emotions and the depression
and the unhappiness
around people.
Hmm. And usually, most of the
time, they're actually a healer,
somebody who's trying to
pull these energies in to try
to change them so they can
change them in the world.
Notice the title of the book is,
" Being You, Changing
the World ."
So many people out
there are actually --
they actually have a desire,
a willingness, and a capacity
to change the world and
they're actually doing it
in the best way they can, but
nobody's ever told them, "Hey,
taking it into your
world doesn't help.
What you need to do is let
it go out of your world
so you can become undepressed
and then become an inspiration
to other people that being
undepressed is okay."
What do you think
about the phrase
of the depression is your gift?
Cancer is your gift?
Well, I would look at it --
that's one way of looking at it.
I know you're going to have a
different perspective [chuckle],
that's why...
Well, I usually have a
different perspective
on pretty much everything.
Pretty much -- which
is what I love.
I can just fire stuff at you
and you can give me
your perspective on it.
Yeah, well...
So what is that?
Cancer was my gift.
Depression was my gift.
Well, well, it can be
because it's like --
I mean if you look at it
as the gift then you look
for what is this letting
me know that can be better
or different, or
that I can change?
That's the gift that these
things are, is what I would say.
Like for example, the fact
that your friend hasn't
been given a raise
in eight years even though
she's doing the work of two
and three people now...
I doubt she'll call that a gift.
What's that?
I don't think she'll call
that a gift [chuckles].
Exactly, but what if she could
look and go, "Wow, what's right
about this, I'm not getting."
That would be my spin
on the gift idea.
What's right about
this I'm not getting?
So for example, when
you look at that,
what it could be is
the universe going,
"Hey there are other
possibilities available."
And that's just one possibility.
There may be a thousand other
things that it could be.
So when somebody says cancer's
a gift or this is a gift,
a lot of times they have
a fixed point of view.
They have a fixed point of
view about what it means.
For me, rather than having
a fixed point of view,
I'd rather be in the question.
I'd rather be like, "Wow,
what is the gift here?"
and ask this question,
"What's right
about this I'm not getting?"
What's right about
this I'm not getting?
Yes, because what we
do is we tend to judge
that there's something
wrong about all these things
that occur in our lives.
When you start to
ask what's right
about this I'm not getting,
you can see the gift in it.
Wow you have said -- when I said
it myself, it lit up for me.
That makes perfect sense.
Yeah, yeah.
Yes. So there are clearing
statements that you --
we were talking about
in just a second here.
Yes. We're going to take
a look at the video again,
and you'll be able to see some
of these clearing statements
from Access Consciousness
in action.
Take a look.
Can you change the
world more with no money
or with lots of money?
Lots of money.
Lots. Why?
Because you can contribute
things to people
that you wouldn't
otherwise be able to do.
If you want to go do something
like take an Access class
as an example, you can go
do it or any other class,
or any other traveling
you want to do,
or any other contribution
you want to do.
When somebody comes and says,
"I've got this great idea?
I really want to run
bars in an orphanage
and I just need the money."
And you're like,
"I have $5 bucks."
What's the difference
between that and, "Hey,
I've got $500 grand
I can give you."
You know what I mean,
big difference.
And so even when I say $500
grand everything that brings
up [audience laughter] where
you just go and create a place,
ride along, good and bad,
POC and POD, all nine,
shorts boys and beyond.
So the -- one of the things
you want to realize is
that money is one
of the biggest --
it's one of the biggest
judgable offenses on the planet
like having it, but the
people who are willing
to have it don't care
about other people's
judgments that they have it.
Does that make sense?
[Background talking] So
what is it you are unwilling
to be judged for, that if you
were willing to simply receive
that judgment [door banging]
and receive it means, "Oh,
interesting judgment you
have of me, go on through."
Okay? Not, "Let me stick
it here and make it real.
Oh my god, I can't believe
you have this judgment of me,
what can I do so you don't
have this judgment of me,
so you can stop judging me,
because I know you're
judging me,
and it's so bad that
you judge me."
That's not receiving it.
That's aligning and agreeing
with it, and making it real.
Receiving it is, "Wow,
interesting judgment I
see that you have of me.
Go on through.
Thank you for your judgment."
Get this, for every
judgment you're willing
to receive you make
$5,000 more that year
or $5,000 pounds depending
on your local currency.
Euros. $5,000 Euros, thank you.
[Audience laughter]
I was just --
I was just doing a class
in London for four days.
It was like -- I have no idea
where the hell I am anymore.
[Audience laughter] Okay,
nor the currency, may I say.
So $5,000 Euros more for
every judgment you're willing
to receive.
For every judgment you try
to refuse, you lose $10,000.
Well, now you know why your
income looks the way it does.
[Audience laughter]
Everything [inaudible] destroy
or create a place, right
or wrong, good and bad,
POC and POD, all nine,
shorts boys and beyond.
Wow. Okay, so what judgment
are you unwilling to receive
that if you allowed yourself
to receive would change your
financial situation completely?
Is money -- the scarcity
conversation,
do you find it repetitive?
All around the world?
Around the world.
Absolutely, yes, as in
all around the world.
And yet, I also find
people who are like,
"What scarcity conversation,
what are you talking about?
I'm making more money
than I ever have."
And it's like, "Oh."
Once again, your point of
view creates your reality.
Reality creates your
point of view,
it's just more people
have been entrained
to the scarcity paradigm.
And you know, entrainment is
where you learn to vibrate
at the same rate as
somebody is vibrating.
And so because we've
done that --
you know, we've talked about the
-- who does this belong to...
Right. ...your thoughts,
feelings, and emotions,
that's how you learn
to create initially,
but then ideally what
happens is you go beyond
that to how would
I like to create?
What would I like to create?
And the question I like to ask
people is if you had not past
and if you had no
projection into the future
about what it could or couldn't
be, and if you didn't have
to keep anybody in your
life that's currently there,
what would you choose?
What would you create?
And paint that picture?
Yeah. So do -- where do you
start, with the values list,
do you start with the
place you would live?
Where would you start?
No, you start with the energy.
Hmm. What energy would
I like my life to have?
Wow. Is peace a good place?
Absolutely, peace,
space, joy, abundance,
and the way you can get the
energies of these things,
it's kind of interesting.
If you ask yourself, "Okay,"
so here's an exercise we can do
in maybe three minutes.
Okay, good, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Want to do it?
Yeah. Okay, cool.
So here's what you do.
Just get the energy of,
for example, having a job
that pays you, let's say double
what you're making right now...
Okay. ...and goes up to I
don't know, $5, $10 million.
Okay. Get the energy
of that and just put
that energy out in front of you.
Now, would you also
like to do something
that changes people's
lives that contributes
to the world, get
those energies?
Like, "Oh, okay."
Notice how it opens
up even more?
Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
You're like oh, that
energy would be cool.
Uh-huh. Notice we're
not defining it.
We're not defining
what the job is,
we're defining the energies
we'd like it to have
and then the universe can put
it in whatever form it can
in conjunction with you and
what you're willing to receive.
And you'll know what it is
when it shows up that way.
Yeah. Okay, keep going.
So now also would you
like to be able to travel?
Well, yeah, most
people would, you know.
Yeah. Okay, cool, so get
that energy, what'd it'd be
like to travel with ease.
Now, when you traveled,
would you like to be able
to stay wherever you wanted
to whether it was, you know,
a five-star hotel
or an apartment,
or get the ease of that.
A boat [chuckles].
Or a boat, yeah...
Yeah. ...or a yacht,
or whatever.
Get the way that would feel.
Now, also, would it
change all the time
because you know how
quickly we get bored?
So get the energy of it
changing all the time
and actually getting greater
all the time, not lesser,
and not contracting into on
doing the same thing every day,
but, "Wow, look what
I get to do today."
And now get the energy of
being able to contribute
to your family, contribute
to your life, and contribute
to the world in the way
that you would like to
with your amazingly
unique phenomenal gifts,
and get that energy there too.
Now, pull energy into that
energy bubble if you will
from all over the universe
and it's a big universe.
Don't even stop at earth,
like big universe...
Uh-huh. ...bigger, big --
more like that, and your
heart should open up.
And now, let little
trickles go out to everyone
and everything who's going to
help make it a reality for you
that you don't even know yet.
That's how to start
creating a life
and living beyond what
you currently have based
on the energies of all the
things that you would truly like
and that would light you on
fire, and make you wake up
and have such a sense
of possibility.
Breath space, yes, yes.
Absolutely, Absolutely.
And it takes all
those little problems
and the scarcity
conversation and dwarfs them...
Yeah. ...makes them...
Because they're lies.
Yeah. Remember, what's true
makes you feel lighter;
a lie always makes
you feel heavier.
All the scarcity conversation --
have you ever had a
scarcity conversation
that made you feel
lighter [laughter]?
You know what I mean?
No. Yeah. It makes
you feel small.
Yeah, you don't get into a
room with people and talk
about scarcity an all of a
sudden go, "Oh, I feel so light,
I'm so glad we had
this conversation."
When you do though, it's
so heavy and limiting.
I know -- it's because it's
a lie for us as beings.
Yeah, yes.
And what we've done is we've
bought into this reality
and limited points of
view that people have,
and what they think is real
and has to be reality rather
than going, "You know what?
No, I'm standing for
something different.
I'm standing for a
different possibility
and a different planet.
And I'm not standing --
," I don't say stand
meaning I'm going to fight.
I mean, "You know
what, I'm just going
to know there's something
different
and I'm going to live as that."
You all can have your
scarcity conversation
and I hope you enjoy it, and I
see it's not making you happier
and I'm tired of
not being happier.
I'm going to be happier and
I'm going to be as spacious,
peaceful, wealthy,
abundant, changing,
traveling as all these things
I just asked to create.
Uh-huh, uh-huh.
And do this thing once a week
maybe, once every few days...
Now you're assuming you have
perfect health during all
of this, as well.
So bring that into
the conversation.
Yeah? Absolutely.
What would it be like if
you had the energy of that?
To go out, ride a horse, Jet
Ski, do whatever you want to do.
Yeah exactly, definitely,
all those things, yes.
Ride a bike.
You have that type of
freedom in your body, as well.
Yeah. To be able to
create at that level.
Yeah, and what happens is
this is actually creation
by request of the universe.
And the universe has been
hoping you would ask,
but so many of the tools
we're given don't connect us
with the universe to
allow it to give to us.
Okay, let's talk about
synchronicities, coincidences.
Yes. What do you
think about those?
Well, I would say -- I look
at that and I go, "Wow,
this is sort of the universe
coming together fortuitously
to contribute to us."
Do you look for them?
No, they just happen
all the time,
but I don't even call them
synchronicities anymore.
I just call it -- for me,
it's a natural actualization
of universal laws
in motion basically.
You're like, "What?
Was that English," you know?
But basically, it's like the
universe wants to contribute.
The universe wants to show us.
I think what we do is we go,
"Oh, that's a synchronicity,"
and in so doing we define it.
Rather than going, "Wow,
that's a miracle I just frigging
created, what would it take
to have more of that?"
Hmm. So for me they're miracles.
They're like man, the
beauty of being alive
because if you look it,
it's like these things
when they happen and they
don't happen when we allow it
to happen, when we're willing to
receive it, and be there for it.
It's like they are,
they're the miracle
that makes life worthwhile --
that makes living possible.
But usually, you take
that miracle and go,
"Oh God I had a miracle,
I'm just going
to keep this over here.
I don't want any more miracles?
Yeah, put it in a box.
[Laughter] I've had
my fill of miracles
for the day -- for the year.
And it's like, "Gees, if I ask
for another miracle that's
going to be really bad."
Who am I to ask for
anything more?
Exactly. Yeah, that's
why that point of view.
That was luck.
My point of view is how does
it get any better than this?
Once you have a miracle
happen go, "Wow universe,
thank you so much this
is so cool, thank you me,
thank you body, okay."
How does it get any
better than this?
See, that's the thing where
I said you want to ask it
in a bad situation
or a good situation.
Yeah. That's thing, when
you create the miracle ask,
"How does it get any better than
this," and it keeps growing.
It actually keeps
getting better.
It keeps expanding even
further and creating even more.
Has anyone ever said to you,
"Well that's your
reality, it's not mine??
Oh, absolutely and I
look at them and I go,
"Which of us is having more
fun, me or you [laughter]?
[Inaudible] I say that I used
to be living a reality
that's a lot like yours.
"So I totally get if
you're not interested
in what I'm talking
about, I totally get it
and I'm totally willing for
you to have that," I said.
"But if you are, it's
so easy to get here.
All it requires is a change
in your point of view,"
and literally, that's
where the access tools are.
I mean I consider it sort
of like the biggest toolbox
on the planet for
possibilities for when you want
to change something you dig in
and go, "Oh, I'll try this one,"
and it'll change things
and they're like, "Ooh,
let me try this one,
let me try this one,"
and the more tools you have the
more things you have to throw
at any situation
that isn't working
and the more tools you have
to create ones that you like.
So it's not like an eight-step
process to prosperity?
Not exactly.
You know why?
[Chuckles] Tell me.
Because each person's process,
path to prosperity, is theirs.
The thing about this is
let's find out what yours is
because literally in
a -- I literally --
I worked with one
lady for 15 minutes.
Her business doubled within
12 months -- 15 minutes.
I thought you were going
to say 15 years [laughter].
Right, exactly --
you're like, "Okay,
and what happened with her?"
Yeah. No, literally, 15 minutes.
She had one point of view
that was sticking things.
I mean she basically had the
basic elements of success.
Ahh. She had the elements of
gratitude, she had the elements
of joy, but she was missing
this thing about she being able
to bring it to reality.
I hear that a lot from my
listeners on my radio show is,
"I'm doing this, this, this."
Right. "I've got all of
the right ingredients.
Why am I not achieving XYZ?"
Yes. I hear that a lot.
Yeah, as do I.
And it's interesting when
you see somebody who has that
and then you talk to them
for 15 minutes to an hour
and you can tweak that
thing in their world,
and then they have a different
world that they can create.
Is that what you -- when
you're talking to them,
you realize what
they're limiting belief
or what their reality is,
what their judgments are
and then you start to
unlock and loosen those,
is that what Access does?
Yeah, yeah, start to unlock
and loosen those and --
because why should you
walk around in judgment?
I mean if you've got a
choice between walking
around in judgment or walking
in gratitude and joy...
Yeah, it makes you feel lighter.
...why are we choosing
judgment, again.
Gratitude and judgment
are mutually exclusive.
Gratitude and joy are
mutually exclusive.
So you can have gratitude
and joy,
which means you're not judging
because any time you judge
you're not in gratitude and joy.
Right. But it's also got
to be really practical.
It's got to be really
practical...
Yeah. ...because it's not,
"Oh I'm out of gratitude,
I'm a bad person," which is what
I used to get before Access.
"Oh, I'm not in gratitude,
I'm a bad person,
but I want to be grateful.
The world won't let me."
Right. These are the tools for
when you want to be grateful
and the world won't let
you, you want to be joyful.
You would like to be happy.
You'd like to be
rich or whatever.
What if none of it is wrong
and none of it is judge-able?
What if it's all changeable
and what if it's all choice?
Hmm, all right, take
a look at this.
There's some really, really
great teaching moments
in this class that
you did in Dublin.
Take a look.
[Video] You could walk around
lowering your barriers.
Okay? So every morning
what I'm going to ask you
to do is lower your barriers
before you even get out of bed.
Just lower the barriers because
what happens is a lot of us,
you know, we'll go to bed
and we're okay and we wake up
and we're like, "Oh, God it
sucks, why am I so unhappy?"
You're not, you're picking
up on the unhappiness
of the world around you.
98% of your thoughts, feelings,
and emotions, don't
belong to you.
If this is your first
time hearing this,
I'm going to highly
suggest you do
who does this belong
to for three days.
Okay? You'll get an
email after this class
with my little video explaining
who does this belong to,
but you want to ask who does
this belong to for three days
to every thought,
feeling, emotion --
basically everything that
makes you feel heavy at all.
Any little drop of heaviness
that's not the space,
just go who does that belong to.
And if it lightens up
at all it's not yours,
return it to sender.
Okay? And you'll do it for a
couple of hours, you'll forget
for an hour, you'll do it for
an hour, forget for an hour,
you'll do it for two hours,
you'll forget for two hours,
you'll do it for 20 minutes,
you'll forget for 30 minutes,
you'll do it for an hour
and then you'll fall asleep
in bed exhausted
after that first day,
because it's the toughest
work you've ever had to do.
You'll do it again like that the
second day and the third day,
and at the end of the third
day there's this amazing thing
that happens - no
thoughts in your head.
No points of view in your head
and you realize you've
broken the mechanism
that made you believe that all
those thoughts, those feelings,
those emotions, those
ideas of poverty,
those ideas you can't do it,
those ideas that you're less,
those ideas that you
need to be separate,
those ideas that you're
unhappy, none of them are yours.
Okay? Literally, 98% it's
actually more like 98,000%
of your thoughts, feelings, and
emotions don't belong to you.
So I'm going to ask you
if you haven't done this,
please start -- you can start
now if you want to or start
when you go home tonight, or
start next time you listen
to the audio because
you won't remember it
until then, no problem.
Okay? But you want to do
who does this belong to
and put sticky notes everywhere.
Who does this belong to
or WDTBT, which is short,
who does this belong to.
Okay? And literally, you'll
start realizing that all
that crappy thought you had
about money was stuff you picked
up from other people your whole
life and thought was yours.
So, what have you decided
money is that it isn't
that if you didn't have
that as your point of view,
would allow you to create
more money than God?
Everything that is right or
wrong, good and bad, POC POD,
all nine, shorts
boys, and beyonds.
So that clearing statement
that you have mentioned...
Yes. I learned that -- you
told me this, that there's
like about eight pages
worth of definition
of that clearing statement.
Yeah, and so that one
statement that sounds so weird
to people is literally short
for eight pages of material.
And rather than having to
read through eight pages
of material every time you want
to change something, we're like,
"Okay we can short cut
it to this and this,
and this, and this, and this."
What you can do if you want
to go to the website...
Yeah. ..."Let Access Be You."
Yeah. That's all on
there, but if you want
to just condense it -- so what
that clearing statement
does is it packs the energy
from the massive clearing
that you put together.
Now, how did you create that?
It actually came together
over many, many years.
Oh. See, the founder of
Access, Gary Douglas,
he founded it 25 years ago.
He started by the awareness
of things should be able
to be different and
we should have --
and I know we have a capacity to
change, how do we actualize it,
how do we make it easier
than it's ever been
on the planet before?
And so he realized if he could
go to the point of creation
of where something
started and this is
where the clearing statement
started, which is the POC
in the clearing statement,
point of creation.
If you could go to the actual
point of creation of something
and unlock it from
there, it was kind of like
if you had this big oak tree.
You know, let's say you're
walking down the trail
of your life and there's a
cliff to one side and there's,
you know -- or a mountain on one
side and a cliff on the other
and there's this big old tree in
the way and you don't know what
to do and you're like,
"Well, I could chop it down
and hope it doesn't
regrow later,"
or what if you could actually
magically go back in time,
follow a leaf down the branch,
down all the way and go back
in time to where the seed
started, and vaporize the seed
out of existence at its point
of creation before it decided
to become a seed of limitation.
It's like literally using
your choice to go back in time
to change what you haven't
been able to change until now.
At a quantum level.
At a quantum level and beyond.
Is that -- and beyond.
Is that where Access
Consciousness came from,
is another point in time?
Definitely, another point in
time, or space, or something.
Another reality.
Yeah, truly another reality.
And, you know, I haven't really
wanted to tell people that
or say that because people
make things significant
and they're like,
"What do you mean?"
I'm like, "Well, I just mean
it's not about the same thing
that everything else
seems to be about.
Everything else seems to be
about getting this
reality right."
Our point of view
is if this reality,
what if you could go beyond it?
Because if this reality were
right, we would have figured it
out by now, we've been
doing it long enough.
When I say this reality,
I just mean the common every
ordinary everyday things
that we all believe
we have in common,
that what if they didn't
have to be that way anymore?
Like limitations, scarcity...
Struggle. ...judgment, struggle.
That's this reality in
a nutshell and its like,
"Why do we have to
live that way?"
We don't have to.
So it's about actually being
able to access our consciousness
and our definition
of consciousness.
You know, it's interesting,
a lot of the big names
in self-help and that who talk
about spirituality and love
for so many years are now
saying the same thing,
but they're using the
world consciousness.
Right. Except they don't
actually have a definition
for it.
Right. So our definition
for consciousness is
where everything exists
and nothing is judged.
And what we know about
it is, it's the way
to undo every limitation
that you've ever had.
So this clearing statement,
the way it came about,
was Gary looked and went, "If we
could literally go to the point
of creation, truly
go to the point
of creation energetically,"
he started seeing
that he did it energetically
first and walked people back,
and things that they had
had as physical problems,
emotional problems
just dissolved.
That's how that works.
Yeah. I have seen people
get out of wheelchairs...
Yeah. ...eyesight be corrected.
Right. I've seen
phenomenal things...
Right. ...in your workshops.
And isn't it -- it's
the coolest thing.
See, I get excited
because that...
Oh. ...that's the joie de
vivre, you know what I mean?
[Chuckles] Yeah.
That's a reason to be alive...
Yeah. ...for these
miracles that can occur
and so many people are
walking around in their lives
and they don't realize
miraculous living is right here.
It's just having the
invitation, the inspiration,
and most importantly, the
tools to make it happen.
So, Gary found that he
could change these things
energetically and
then he's like,
"You know what there's
got to be a way.
I can go back and help people do
this energetically, he thought,
but he's like I want
everybody to be able to do it.
What if I actually
matched this energy
that I'm aware of to words?"
And so he started by matching
it to words, and so it started
with this POC and POD, going
back to the point of creation.
Uh-hum, uh-hum.
That's the short form
of a clearing statement.
If you don't want to do all
those weird words I said,
you go POC and POD all that
and it will still work.
Point of creation --
point of destruction.
Yeah. POC, POD.
Yeah. Now I've always wondered
why you have the different terms
and questions that you
ask because if I tried
to ask those questions,
I would scramble them.
They confuse me sometimes, which
I think is intentional, right?
Yeah, it actually is
because what it's designed
to do is go beyond
your logical mind.
See, your logical mind is the
thing that's created every
limitation you have.
True. What we're doing is we're
going beyond the logical mind
because your mind is
like a big card catalog.
Remember in libraries, before
computers, when they used
to have the big old
card catalogs?
Yes, yes [chuckles].
Your mind is like a
big old card catalog
and when it receives a new
piece of information it checks
through every card
in that catalog,
and if it hasn't already
stamped it okay, it goes reject,
bad, wrong, don't do it.
So some of the greatest things
that could create miracles
in our lives, we have rejected
because our mind has said, "Oh,
that's not our reality."
And it's like, "Yeah, but what
if it could be what created
a far greater reality?"
Our mind has been limiting
us for far too long.
And, you know, there are people
that have the point of view
"I think therefore I am,"
and how much fun are
they to be around?
You know what I mean?
Right, right.
Oh yes, yes.
We know. A little too
much thinking, you know?
[Laughter] Yes.
So what's...
Happens usually when
you go home.
You find that [laughter].
Yes, exactly.
And the interesting thing
about that was I had a lady
who sent me an email and she
said, "Thank you so much."
Because I had done
a call about dealing
with family at holiday season.
She said, "This is the first
time I've ever gone to my family
and felt totally at peace.
I didn't cut off any part of me.
I was so happy and my mom
came up and gave me a hug
for the first time
in six years."
And I was like, "Really?"
Wow. Interesting change.
Yes [laughter].
But that's just part
of what can change.
If you were to envision a world
that everybody understood
what you're talking about,
what would that world look like?
[Laughter] Well, okay,
you got me with that one.
Basically, the world
would have no borders
between people or countries.
We would be able to embrace each
other arm and arm, hand in hand,
see the beauty of each of us.
And when one of our brothers
or sisters didn't see it
or were feeling downtrodden,
our awareness
of their beauty would
be able to lift them up
and they'd actually
have the willingness
and capacity to receive it.
We would actually see
the greatness in others,
rather than look to
judge them first.
We'd see the greatness
in ourselves
and we'd actually receive
that we are a gift here.
Not only that, but we would
have a far greater connection
with this planet.
We would actually ask the
planet before doing things
like putting thousands of tons
of concrete on earthquake
faults.
We would go, "Hey earth, if
we do this, is this going
to work out well for us?
And earth, would you please
look after our stuff?"
We don't have the idea that this
kind of connection is possible,
but in the world that
I see as possible,
there'd be such connection
that it would flow
through everything.
What about killing, and murder,
and thievery, and all that?
I know we've gotten off the
money topic for a second...
Right. ...but this
is good [chuckles].
Here's the thing.
It's interesting because in
a world of consciousness,
could those things exist?
No, you would hope not.
No. Well, no it can't because
that's the furthest end
of anticonsciousness
and unconsciousness.
That's the furthest end of it...
True. ...murder, genocide,
slavery, all the things
that we know we'd
like to change.
Those aren't judgments?
No, that's an awareness.
Difference?
What's the difference between
judgment and awareness?
Well, judgment is where
you actually have a point
of view about it.
An awareness is, you can have
an awareness for example...
Oh, with no point of view.
Yeah, with no point of view.
Like for example, you can even
look and see someone and go wow,
they're really selfish, but
that's not necessarily judgment.
We've misidentified
and misapplied
that if we have an awareness
like that, that it's a judgment
because it seems negative
and our positive point
of view is not like, "Oh
they're so beautiful,"
or, "They're perfect."
What if those could
be judgments.
So the judgments are the
things that hook you.
Exactly. But the
awarenesses are the things
that you look at
from a distance.
Yes, exactly.
Okay. And so if you realize
that then you realize
that wait a minute, there's
a whole different way
of being in the world.
That's huge.
Yeah. That's huge.
Yeah. So take that -- apply
that conversation to money.
A judgment of money would --
would say that you're resistant
to it, but an awareness
of money would embrace it?
Exactly and it -- if you get
over your judgments you --
if you did nothing else other
than make the demand
you're going to get
over your judgments,
especially of you,
because that's the one
thing you'll judge more
than anything else
and then everything --
everyone and everything
else literally you start
to receive money far more
easily than you ever imagined
because you wouldn't have
the barriers up anymore.
What most people do is they
live behind these walls
and these barriers, and they're
so defended all the time
thinking that they've got
to protect themselves
in order to live here.
In the world I envision, the
walls and the barriers come down
and we embrace each other
and embrace the possibilities
that are available.
And money is just
an afterthought,
which is everywhere for the
taking and not the taking,
but the receiving, the
gifting and receiving.
Wow, that -- that --
that got me [laughter].
Something in there
got stuck and that --
I realized after I said
that about the judgments.
Here's a perfect example.
Is -- once you get through
a certain layer of judgment
and you realize you have a
judgment about something,
it opens up the space to look at
the other layers that you have.
Yeah, yeah and if you can
do it without judgment,
if you can look and go, "Wow,
I realize I'm judging this,"
and I grew up in a world
where I learned to judge first
and ask questions later if at
all, and realize you learn --
you grew up in that world.
And what if you can look at
your judgment and the fact
that you have judgments
without judgment?
[Chuckles] Wow, it's a process.
It's a delayering process.
It is. But it's a...
It's a freeing process.
It is. It's a joyful, freeing
process of possibilities.
Because once you call
attention to the fact
that there's judgments
beyond your judgments
and then you realize
that you're starting
to delayer those judgments...
Yeah. ...unravel
them, get to the seed
from where they started, and
then disappear that back --
back in time, from
whence it came...
Right. ...that's a
statement that you have, too.
Return it to whence
it came, right?
Yeah, yeah, when you have
those weird voices in your head
that tell you that you can't
or the energies that say,"
Oh you're bad, you're
wrong, you're terrible."
You go -- go back to from
whence you came, never to return
to me or this reality.
Go back to from whence
you came, never to return
to me or this reality.
Go back to from whence
you came, never to return
to me or this reality.
Go back to from whence
you came, never to return
to me or this reality.
Go back to from whence
you came, never to return
to me or this reality.
As many times as it take to get
a sense of space and openness.
And it's interesting because
it's almost like people
out there, as I'm doing
that, are going, "Oh,"
like it lightens up your world.
I felt that instantly...
Yeah, and that's...
>...around the fourth
time you said it...
Exactly. ...I felt it, yes, yes.
And that's what this
is all about.
Imagine living from
that lightness,
but not from disconnecting
from this reality,
not from disconnecting from
the wonderful things here,
but by embracing them all
and embracing them all
with no judgment, and
embracing everything else you'd
like to choose here.
Because what I'm saying is not,
"Let's go live on
another planet.
Let's go live on a mountain."
I'm saying there are wonderful
things like chili burgers
and ice cream, and
motorcycles, and jet skis,
and beautiful parks, and I
mean just -- beautiful animals.
They're amazing things
to live with here.
Let's not discount all of that.
Let's get over our judgments
and get over our points of view,
and get over our
unwillingness to receive
so we can experience it all even
greater and create the money
so we can create it and have it
too, and also change the world.
Yes, yes, yes, hear, hear.
All right, let's take a
look at that [laughter] --
another video from Dain
here as he's talking
in Dublin, Ireland again.
Take a look at this.
...[inaudible].
Okay, when I came back
to my normal life,
notice the point of view.
Here's what you've
got to get, guys,
your point of view
creates your reality.
Reality does not create
your point of view.
Your point of view
creates your reality.
Reality does not create
your point of view.
So when you go, "I came
back to my normal life,"
what have you just created?
You just created
going back number one
to where you were before
you went to your meditation
and got a glimpse of you, and
now you have to be normal.
Now here's the thing.
You look at that and go, "Well,
why are you even having this --
," because that's exactly the
point of view that's creating
that reality and if you can
POD and POC the point of view,
what happens is rather
than going back and rather
than having to be
normal, you go forward
into a phenomenal
life and living.
Does that make sense?
Now please, this is the stuff
that is sticking us right here.
This is the stuff right
here that is sticking us.
That is why I'm having
the conversation.
If it were irrelevant, I
wouldn't talk about it.
I wouldn't address it.
Okay? You've got to get this is
the same thing that's sticking
you with money.
Same thing that's sticking
you as when you go, "Oh,
I've got to go back
to my family now.
to my job now."
No, you don't ever
want to go back.
You want to go forward and go,
"How does it get any
better than this."
And the people that actually
do this, who don't think,
"Oh it's just semantic fluff
and it's just semantics,
and it's just semantic
crap," the people
that actually do this,
their lives start changing
and their money starts changing,
money flows starts changing.
So please, the only
reason I'm --
I would not talk about it
I it were not relevant.
Being in this conversation
is so empowering because it,
again [chuckles], you
explained it perfectly.
It's not from this
reality, but it needs
to become this reality
[laughter].
Yeah, yeah, truly.
Yeah. One of the interesting
things Gary Douglas --
when he said -- one of
the first things he said
to me, he said, "You know?"
I said, "Gary you're doing this
great stuff that's changing a
lot of people's lives.
Like what's a measure
of success for you?"
He said, "You know what?
Two things -- ."
He said, " I know I'm a success
if I change one person's life
for the greater because
they will go
out and change the world.
Second, I'll know I'm a
success when everybody
on the planet is using these
tools and nobody knows my name."
And I went, "Wow.
Okay, so you really don't care
if anybody knows your name?"
He's like, "No, I just want
people to have access to this."
And I've got the
same point of view.
I don't care if anybody
knows my name.
I want them to know their name.
You know? Yeah.
Truly, it's like --
that changes the world.
Yeah, I've noticed that there
are a lot of spiritual teachers
on the horizon lately.
Yes. And they come
in with an ego
so that you know it's their
material, their message
and it is -- there's
definitely --
I've seen this lately
as a separation...
Yeah. ...a separation
and it's a separation
and I don't understand
it sometimes.
Well, that's also because
what you're looking
to do is empower people.
And one of the things
that happens is we don't
see how people can function
from such a totally
different reality than we do.
You know, you would
look and you'd go,
"Why would you not
just empower people?
Why can't we all just get along?
Why won't you show them
the greatness of them?"
Well, their reality is
something totally different.
So how do you deal with
that when you're in a job
where you have someone
who's got a --
big ego and you don't
want to play [chuckles]?
What do you do?
Well, there's all kinds of
tools that we have available.
One is there's a
clearing that you can use.
You can say, "What
stupidity and I'm using it
to create the resistance
I am choosing."
And when it...
So you take -- put
it back on yourself?
Yeah. Okay.
But it's not -- it's more like
in order for you to resist
and react -- and when I
say stupidity I don't mean
that you're stupid, please
don't take it that way.
Yeah. What it is, is you're
actually way more aware
than you've given
yourself credit for.
So what you're doing is you're
saying what unawareness am
I using...
Okay. ...to resist this jerk?
[Laughter] Ahh.
You know what I mean?
Why -- like why would -- just
because somebody has a big ego
and they're arrogant, why would
I have to resist and react
to that if I've got me.
So you go what, "Stupidity
am I using
to create the resistance I
am choosing; right and wrong,
good and bad, POC and POD, all
nine, shorts boys and beyond.
POD and POC all that."
And then one other tool that's
probably even more valid
in a wider range of situations
is you look and you get
that energy, that resistance,
or those barriers that come up
and just say to that
energy, "Interesting point
of view I have this
point of view."
Uh-huh. Then again,
"Interesting point of view.
I have this point of view,"
and it should shift each time.
And then you go,
"Interesting point of view.
I have this point of view.
Interesting point of view,
I have this point of view,"
and after four times
it's usually gone.
What about the 1%
conversation --
the 99% talking about the
1% having all the money
in the world and then
destroying the planet?
Is that a judgment and
how do you clear that?
Here's my question.
Does it make you feel lighter
when you talk about it?
When I hear about it on
the radio, it doesn't seem
like the people talking
about it feel any lighter.
No, they definitely
do not feel lighter.
And what they're doing
is they're going, "Oh,
it's a conspiracy and these
people are holding us down."
Well, just in taking
that point of view --
remember, your point of
view creates your reality --
just in taking that point
of view they have just made
themselves less than people
who have money, which means that
they've just taken themselves
out of being able to be
the people who have money.
But if they were willing to
be the people who have money,
they could have enough money
to undo what they think
the other people are doing.
Maybe -- what if money isn't
necessarily the end goal,
but it's the essence of
wealth and abundance,
and personal joy
that is the angle.
Yes, absolutely.
Same thing, really, right?
Absolutely, yeah, and that's
the thing is it truly --
once again, money follows
joy and like you said,
what if money isn't
actually the target.
Right, what if joy
is [laughter].
What if it's actually living.
Yeah, exactly, what if joy
is actually your target?
Yeah. So if joy is actually
your target, you -- you make --
you do things from a
totally different place.
But once again I
want to say this,
it's got to be practical
and pragmatic.
See a lot of people go, "Well
I'm just going to be joyful
so I'm never going
to work again."
Is that really joyful or did
you come to the conclusion
that that's what you would do,
that's the only time
you could be joyful.
For me, I love the
work that I do.
What about going to a job
that you don't like in order
to get the money to be joyful?
Okay, now what you've
got to look at in
that is does this job you
give you enough money?
Is it paying you enough to do
something you don't want to do?
And if it is, in the short
term -- no problem...
Good question.
...if it's not, don't just
go quit the job to prove
that you're doing
something different now.
Once again, be practical
and pragmatic.
Look at it and go, "Okay,
I just finally am willing
to acknowledge this job
doesn't work for me."
Once again, it's being
present with what is
and then you ask the question,
"What's it going to take
to change this,"
and then, "Universe,
what have you got for me?
Show me something different."
Do that exercise of what
you would like to create
as the energy of
what it would be.
You know, the exercise we
did with the energy here.
That was a great exercise, yes.
That's a way to know --
now here's the thing,
that has an energy to it, right?
So if you're in this job that
you don't like, what you want
to do is you want to
start looking for things
that have more of that energy.
It could be that
somebody invites you
to New York for example.
They're like, "Hey,
do you want to come
to New York for a weekend?
I'll buy you a ticket."
You're like, "Wow, it feels
just like that energy, sure."
While you're there, you meet
somebody who has a yacht
and they need somebody to direct
their -- you know what I mean?
Yes, yes. But that's --
this thing, this one
tool is actually a way
of knowing the energy
to follow to get
where you would like to go.
And you took the focus
off of hating the job...
Yeah. ...disappointment
with what is.
Yes. You've opened it up to
possibilities and maybe you got
that phone call to New York
because you were at your desk
at the job you hate [laughter].
Exactly, exactly.
But it doesn't matter anymore...
Right. ...because it led
to another possibility.
Yes. So the bottom line is
to keep your mind open
to the possibilities.
Keep your mind open
Keep asking the questions.
And POC and POD everything
that gets
in your way, you
know [laughter].
Like, you know -- and I
say play with these tools.
Take them and just use
them, and see how they work.
I mean I can't tell you the
number of emails I've gotten
from people who say, "Oh my
gosh; I played with this tool
and it totally changed
something."
I mean you're very
humble, but I have seen you
in workshops just take
people out of wheelchairs.
I've seen you bring passion
into somebody's entire body.
I've seen things happen
that are incredible.
So thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you very much for
being with us again.
Thank you so much.
And -- absolutely.
The audience loved you
so much they wanted more,
wanted to hear more...
Hey. ...because this is so new
and different for many people.
So thank you so much for being
here and thank you so much
for being here, as well and
for watching, and if you want
to watch the replay of my
interview of Dr. Dain here
or share it with your
friends, go to Gaiamtv.com
for a lot more though
provoking interviews
and inspirational films,
and much, much more.
Go to gaiamtv.com
and until next time,
I invite you to stay inspired.
[ Music ]